---
layout: news
title: "Application for postdoc is closed"
description: "postdoc"
author: "Jing Ma"
author_handle: "Jing Ma"
category: news
tags: 
---


**Position Title**: Postdoctoral Researcher in Biostatistics
 
**Summary**: The research group led by Dr. Jing Ma in the Division of Public Health Sciences at Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center and Prof. Ali Shojaie in the Department of Biostatistics at the University of Washington is seeking for a highly motivated postdoctoral researcher to develop novel statistical methods for problems in genomics and microbiome. The project will focus on methods for analysis of complex biological/ecological systems using novel statistical machine learning tools, including network analysis, high-dimensional regression and inference. This is a unique opportunity for someone who is interested in a collaborative environment and interacting with investigators with diverse experiences. The position is available for 2 years from August 1st 2018 (or by negotiation). 
 
**Duties and Responsibilities**: The successful candidate will work with Dr. Jing Ma and Prof. Ali Shojaie in developing novel statistical/computational methods in the context of genomics and microbiome. He/she will have opportunities to join collaborative research projects within Fred Hutch and UW as well as external collaborations.

**Position Qualifications**: The successful candidate will have 
 * completed (or nearly completed) a PhD in Statistics/Biostatistics or a closely related area prior to their appointment;
 * demonstrated a capacity to produce high quality research. 

In addition, the ideal candidate will also have
 * expertise in statistical machine learning and high-dimensional inference;
 * applied work in genomics and microbiome data analysis. 
 
**Salary Range**: Competitive.
 
**How to Apply**: Please email the following materials to jingma@fredhutch.org: 
 * CV; 
 * two publication samples or preprints; 
 * a one page statement of research interests;
 * contact information of three references.
 
**Application is closed**. 


